This test does not take reserves into account. The convention applies as per art. 1, 2, and 3 of all GC. This means that in all circumstances (art. 1 of all GCs), be of peacetime or not (art. 2 of all GCs), in IAC (art. 2 of all GCs; art. 3 of all GCs e contrario). Whether the other party has adhered or not to the GCs does not matter (cf. art. 2 of all GCs). The person's status of neutral party does not matter (cf. art. 4 GC1). The protections granted in NIAC are restricted in the conventions, so this purity test will not focus on them. 
Checking each box removes one point. Checking a box containing grave breaches (in red) will remove ten points.


GC1:
Forced a protected person to renounce their rights (art. 7 GC1)?
Discriminated in terms of care for the wounded and sick. If the wounded and sick were abandoned, the circumstances have not justified it, and the necessary medical equipment has not been given (art. 12 GC1)?
Omitted to search and care for, or have not done everything possible at the time to search and care for the wounded, the sick, and the dead (including obstruction of passage for religious personnel and/or obstruction for them to exercise their duty as per the appropriate customs) (art. 15, art. 17 GC1)?
Omitted to keep records for the wounded, dead, and sick (art. 16 GC1)?
Omitted, prior to burial, to do an appropriate examination of a dead person's identity in spite of circumstances allowing it (art. 17 GC)?
Prevented relief societies from collecting the sick or wounded (art. 18 GC) or attacked medical units (art. 19 GC) while those helping have stayed within the limits of their duties (art. 21 GC e contrario)?
Obstructed the work of, or disrespected the work of medical personnel exclusively providing humanitarian aid, chaplains, medical administrators, trained nurses, humanitarian workers, voluntary aid workers, or a neutral party (art. 24, art. 25, art. 26, art. 27 GC1)?
Retained personnel whose retention was not necessary (art. 30, art. 31 GC1)?
Detained neutral personnel (art. 32 GC1)?
Used material of the armed forces which was used by the opposing party for care of the wounded and sick for a purpose other than exclusively caring for the wounded and sick (art. 33).
Attacked or obstructed transport of the wounded and sick, be it on land or air (art. 35-37 GC)?
Committed reprisals against protected persons or objects (art. 46 GC)?
Did not punish a party who has committed a grave breach to this convention (art. 49 GC)?
Willfully killed a protected person (art. 50 GC1)?
Tortured a protected person (art. 50 GC1)? 
Treated inhumanely a protected person (including experimentation) (art. 50 GC1)? 
Willfully caused great suffering or serious injury to a protected person (art. 50 GC1)?
Caused an extensive destruction and appropriation of property of protected persons (art. 50 GC1)?

Wounded and sick under your command (or just you) have continued hostilities when being taken care for aboard a neutral ship (art. 15 GC2)?
Attacked military hospital ships, coastal rescue craft, or other hospital ships which have been used for their appropriate purpose (art. 22, art. 27 GC2)?
Captured personnel on a humanitarian ship and/or prevented personnel from exercising their humanitarian duties (art. 36, art. 37 GC2)?

Prevented the ICRC and/or other humanitarian groups from conducting humanitarian options on POWs (art. 9 GC3)?
Treated a POW in a way that resulted in either death or serious injury (art. 13 GC3)?
Discriminated POWs in the way that they were treated (art. 16 GC3)?
Omitted to collect important information about POWs such as names and rank (art. 17 GC3)?
Prevented POWs from keeping personal equipment not used for military purposes (equipment used for personal protection or direct security threats cannot be taken away either) (art. 18 GC3)?
Did not evacuate POWs in an emergency in spite of circumstances allowing it (art. 19 GC3)?
Treated a POW in an inhumane manner (art. 20 GC3)?
Interned a POW in a place that is not on land, or hygienic (art. 22 GC3)?
Brought POWs directly into the fighting (art. 23 GC3)?
Did not provide shelters from aerial bombardment and/or other hasards of war for POWs (art. 23 GC3)?
Did not quarter POWs in the same conditions as military personnel stationed on the detention site (art. 25 GC3)?
Did not provide essential supplies or proper hygiene to POWs (art. 28, art. 29 GC3)?
Did not inspect POWs medically once a month or prevented such an inspection (art. 31, art. 55 GC3)?
Prevented a POW from practicing their religion or conducting religious services or from an external person to conduct said religious services (art. 34 - 37 GC3)?
Did not provide physical and intellectual exercise for POWs (art. 38 GC3)?
Did not put a copy of the Geneva Conventions into the possession of the competent detaining officer (art. 39 GC3)?
Prevented a POW from wearing badges of rank, nationality, or other decorations (art. 40 GC3)?
Prevented a POW from knowing their rights (art. 41 GC3)?
Did not give a warning to an escaping POW prior to using a weapon on them (art. 42 GC3)?
Did not take into account the opinion of the POW when transferring them (art. 46 GC3)?
Did not give POWs sufficient notice when transferring them, did not allow for continued possession of personal effects, or did not inform next of kin of the POW (art. 48 GC3)?
Forced a POW to work a dangerous or humiliating job (art. 52 GC3)?
Forced a POW to work overly long hours without a break (art. 53 GC3)?
Did not put any cash captured from the POW into their account (art. 59 GC3)?
Prevented a POW from obtaining money due to them for their work (art. 62-64 GC3)?
Prevented a POW from viewing their account during or after detainment (art. 65-66 GC3)?
Prevented a POW from writing home after one week of capture (mere restrictions do not count) (art. 70-71 GC3)?
Prevented or obstructed or made more difficult for a POW to receive letters or shipments (medical or not) (art. 72-75 GC3)?
Prevented a POW from having access to a lawyer and/or authenticate their signatures (art. 77 GC3)?
Prevented a POW to let their respective nation's military forces know the conditions regarding their captivity and treatment (art. 78 GC3)?
Prevented the election of a representative elected by the POWs (art. 79-81 GC3)?
Punished said representative for offenses committed by another POW (art. 79-81 GC3)?
Punished a POW in an inhumane, brutal, or dangerous manner (art. 89-95 GC3)?
Let a punishment exceed 30 days in duration (art. 89-95 GC3)?
Let the period in confinement for a POW awaiting punishment exceed 14 days (art. 89-95 GC3)?
Breached the principle of legality, stating that no person can be sentenced for something which is not explicitly condemned by a legal text (art. 99-100 GC3)?
Did not send seriously wounded or sick POWs back to their own country (unless the POW has injured themselves voluntarily) (art. 109 GC3)?
Did not forward the necessary death certificates to the POW information bureau (art. 122-123 GC3)?
Did not award the deceased POW a respectable burial (art. 122-123 GC3)?
Prevented representatives or delegates of a Protecting Power from going to locations where POWs are being held and/or conduct interviews with POWs (art. 126 GC3)?

Did not grant particular protection and respect to the wounded, sick, infirm, and expectant mothers in wartime (art. 16 GC4)?
Attacked civilian hospitals and medical organizations which were used solely for their intended purpose (art. 18 cum art. 19 & art. 20 GC4)?
Attacked transport, aircraft, etc. transporting wounded and/or sick civilians which were used solely for their intended purpose (art. 21, art. 22 GC4)?
Refused to allow free passage of medical supplies and objects needed for religious worship intended only for civilians, as well as food, tonics, and clothing meant for children under 15, as well as expectant mothers, with such items being exclusively destined for their intended purpose (art. 23 GC4)?
Enabled children under the age of 15 years to be left to their own ressources and/or prevented care and/or education by someone of similar background (if the means allow) (art. 24 GC4)?
Prevented civilians from sending letters of a strictly personal nature (art. 25 GC4)?
Refused to reunite families which were separated because of the war (art. 26 GC4)?
Disrespected civilians in terms of their honor or family rights, religion, practices, manners, and customs (art. 27 GC4)?
Used protected persons to render a place immune from military operations (art. 28 GC4)?
Prevented protected persons from applying to any organization that might assist them, including to the Protecting Powers, which have the capacity to assist them (art. 30 GC4)?
Coerced physically or morally a protected person (art. 31 GC4)?
Physically harmed a protected person (art. 32 GC4)?
Punished a protected person for a crime they did not commit (art. 33 GC4)?
Took (civilian) hostages (art. 34 GC4)?
Prohibited a protected person from leaving their territory whose departure would not conflict with the national interests of the state (art. 35 GC4)?
Did not provide opportunities for protected persons to find employment after the conflict if they have lost their job due to the conflict (art. 39 GC4)?
Placed protected persons into an assigned residence or interned them when the security of the detaining power did not justify the circumstances (art. 42 GC4)?
Treated refugees exclusively based on their nationality (art. 44 GC4)?
Transferred protected persons to a power that is not a party of this Convention or to a power in which the protected person may face persecution (art. 45 GC4)?
Engaged in mass forced transfers or deportation when the safety of the protected persons did not justify it (art. 49 GC4)?
Did not make the proper arrangements for children (most importantly orphaned children) to receive a proper education (art. 50 GC4)?
Compelled protected persons to serve in the armed or auxiliary forces (people over 18 who are compelled for work necessary for the occupation such as work on public utility services or help toward the local population is okay though) (art. 51 GC4)?
Attempted to or successfully created unemployment or restrict the opportunities of protected persons (art. 52 GC4)?
As an occupying power, destroyed real or personal property, unless absolutely necessary for military operations (art. 53 GC4)?
As an occupying power, altered the status of public officials or judges, applied sanctions, or took measures of coercion or discrimination against them (removing these officials from their posts does not count) (art. 54 GC4)?
Did not ensure that, as an occupying power, the needs of the occupied civilian population were met first before using the resources the land had to offer (art. 55 GC4)?
As an occupying power, did not maintain medical establishments, or services of public health and hygiene; prevented medical personnel from doing their work (art. 56 GC4)?
Requisitioned necessary facilities from civilians when the circumstances did not justify it (art. 57 GC4)?
Prevented religious ministers from supporting the local civilian population (art. 58 GC4)?
Diverted relief consignments from the purpose for which they are intended, except in cases of urgent necessity and with the consent of the protecting power (art. 60 GC1)?
Did not allow the penal/criminal laws of the occupied territory to remain in force (art. 64 GC4)?
Prevented civilians from receiving a fair trial for whatever reason, as an occupying power (art. 65ss GC4)?
Did not hand over detainees of the liberated territory at the end of the occupation (art. 77 GC4)?
Prevented detainees from their civil capacity (art. 80 GC4)?
Refused to follow the provision which prescribes that detainees must have medical attention if needed (or regularly, as per art. 92 GC4 (once a month)), without any deductions from their allowances, salaries, or credits (art. 81, art. 85 GC4)?
Exposed places of internment to particular dangers (art. 83, art. 88 GC4)?
Prevented internees from living a dignified life in internment with appropriate living conditions (art. 89ss GC4)?
Forced internees to work (art. 95 GC4)?
Mistreated internees in any other way (improper clothing, improper food, impossibility for internees to practice their religion, impossibility for internees to have identifying items or personal effects, improperly punished internees, impossibility to elect representatives in the internment camp, ...) (art. 90ss GC4)?
Prevented internees from communicating with close family or receiving packages (including foodstuffs, clothing, medical supplies, books, ...) (or made it more difficult with taxes for example) (art. 107-110 GC4)?
Prevented internees from receiving visitors (art. 116 GC4)?
Transferred internees to a penitentiary establishment, or engaged in an inhumane transfer of said internees (art. 124, art. 128 GC4)?
Continued internment of civilians after hostilities ceased (art. 133 GC4)?

Made medical aircraft fly over neutral or unaffected territory in IAC (art. 31 AP1)?
Used methods or means of warfare forbidden by the Geneva Conventions in IAC (art. 35 AP1)? These include weapons, projectiles, material, and other methods of warfare of a nature to cause superfluous injury or unnecessary suffering, including those that are intended or expected to cause widespread, long term, and severe damage to the natural environment.
Did not conduct an investigation, as a the appropriate authority within the country that invented a new kind of weapon or other means/method of warfare, to see if such a weapon violates the principles of international humanitarian law (art. 36 AP1)?
Used another party's flag as identification in IAC (art. 39 AP1)?
Targeted an hors de combat in IAC (art. 41 AP1)?
Targeted a person parachuting from an aircraft in distress during IAC (art. 42 AP1)?
Did not distinguish between civilians or combattants in IAC (art. 48 AP1)?
Targeted civilians which did not directly participate in hostilities in an attack in IAC (art. 51 AP1)?
Attacked historic monuments, works of art, and places of worship, or used them to support military efforts in any way, be it during IAC or NIAC (art. 53 AP1, art. 14-16 AP2)?
Starved civilians as a method of warfare, or destroyed/attacked/removed other things necessary to the survival of civilians in IAC (art. 54 AP1)?
Omitted to ensure that the environment is protected from any long term damage during IAC (art. 55 AP1)?
Attacked dams, dikes, and/or nuclear power plants during IAC (art. 56 AP1)?
Did not endeavor to remove civilians from the vicinity of military objectives or attacked densely populated areas, either one during IAC (art. 58 AP1)?
Interfered with civilians in a major manner as an occupying power during IAC (art. 63 AP1)?
Did not follow the prescriptions protecting women, including protections from rape and forced prostitution during IAC (art. 76 AP1)?
Unlawfully and forcefully, as an occupying power, evacuated children during IAC (art. 78 AP1)?
Refused to protect journalists, including omitting to give them a proper means of identification during IAC (art. 79 AP1)?
Did not give the ICRC or any other humanitarian organization the necessary means to care for victims of a conflict during IAC (art. 81 AP1)?
Omitted to provide appropriate legal advisers to military commanders during IAC (art. 82 AP1)?
Refused to punish those who have committed a grave breach during IAC, including superiors who omitted to do anything about it (art. 86 AP1)?
Did not prosecute war criminals who engaged in IAC, when you had the capacity to do so (art. 88 AP1)?
Enabled the forced migration of civilians during NIAC in a time when there was no danger to them (art. 17 AP2)?
Did not treat the new symbol of the red square as a symbol of humanitarian aid, just like the red cross or red crescent (AP3)?

The second additional protocol applies to NIAC only, and takes a lot of the prescriptions mentioned during the conventions. If you've done something on this list during NIAC, you might as well still check it, unless explicitly said "during IAC" or something similar.












